all right so we're going to talk about
two or three topics today and the first
one is going to be kind of a review of
some of the functions that exist inside
torch and kind of when and how to use
them so the first the first set of
topics is about activation functions and
there is a whole bunch of them defined
in in tight torch and they basically
come from you know various papers that
people have written where they claim
that this or that particular objective
function or activation function works
better for their problem so of course
everybody knows the value that's very
standard one but there's lots of
variations of values these values where
the the the bottom part is not constant
and set to zero they can be allowed to
change either only with the positive
slope or force to be to have a negative
slope or sometimes being random in the
case of the randomized VQ value so they
have you know a nice named likely key
value pair you revalue random value etc
so the key value is one where you allow
the bottom part to have negative so and
that kind of prevents the issue that
sometimes pops up that you know when
radio is off it doesn't get any gradient
so here here you get a chance for that
system that function to actually
propagate gradient and perhaps do
something useful can go all the way to
kind of compete full ratification of the
signal kind of like an absolute value
value it's well yeah
the previous the previous activation was
is user using the discriminatory in
again such that we always have gradients
going backwards for the generator and
also these activation was necessary in
order to train the very skinny network I
show at the beginning of the class
because again having like a very very
skinny network it was basically
impossible to get gradients flowing back
because we were like ending up in one of
the quadrants without you know where
everything was zero out and then nothing
would have been actually trained if you
wouldn't have
use you know this activation function
that allows me to get some kind of
gradients even if we are in the regions
where we are trying to suppress the
output so yeah right so a prelude is
it's similar except now the the slope
and they get your side can be just about
anything and okay what's what's
interesting about those all those
functions that we just saw is that they
are scale invariant in the sense that
they you know you can multiply the
signal by two and the output will not be
changed
yeah I mean it would be multiplied by
two but otherwise unchanged so they are
equivalent to scale there's no sort of
intrinsic scale in those in those
functions right because there's only one
non-linearity and it's a sharp one so
now we're getting into functions where
the scale matters so the amplitude of
the incoming signal will affect the type
of non the type of non-linearity that
you're going to get and one of those is
the the soft press so soft rice it's
sort of a differentiable version of
radio if you want it's it's kind of the
soft version of positive part and it's
usually
permit rised as you can see at the top
here
whatever Bay dialog 1 plus X financial
beta X so it's it's kind of like the log
some exponential that we've been using a
lot for service purpose except here one
of the terms in the sum is equal to 1
which is kind of like exponential zero
if you want so that looks like kind of a
function that so synthetic ly is the
identity function for large policy
values and asymptotically zero for
negative values so the approximate sir
value it has a scale parameter though
this this beta parameter the larger beta
the more the function will look like a
value so the cake will be kind of the
corner will be kind of sharper if petah
goes to infinity but that that function
has a scale
now you can prioritize those functions
in in various ways and this is sort of a
another example of
kind of a soft version of value if you
want where we're here you use value as a
basis and then you add a small constant
to it that kind of makes it smooth you
know I can't tell you that
any of those has any particular
advantage over the others it really
depends on the only problem but they
they all have kind of similar properties
if you want this also you can make sort
of continuously closer to value that's
yet ok so when when difference here in
this case is that this guy actually goes
negative right so unlike the value that
has its minimum at zero this it's
horizontal asymptote at zero this guy
goes below zero and that may or may or
may not be advantageous depending on the
application you have sometimes it's
advantageous because it allows the
system to basically make the average of
the output zero which is advantageous
for certain types of for grading design
convergence the weights that are
connected to units like this will see
both both positive and negative values
which will then converge faster than if
you only see positive values so it's
been the same here and it's just kind of
a differently you know a different
permutation of kind of the same thing if
you want with different properties so of
course there's tons of variations of
this you know with various parameters
with different properties and you know
some of them that have particular
properties that can relate them to
Gaussian distributions for example this
is not the cumulative distribution of a
Gaussian but okay so those those were
things that have one kinks in them and
if the kink is sharp there's no scale if
the King has some scale in it there is
some scale but it's still sort of a
single kick non-linearity now we're
getting into nonlinearities I have two
kings okay so this one is basically a
saturating value
I know sure white saturates at six you
know why not but
why not parameterize this a little
better so here's a smooth function that
you're familiar with because it's used
in in recurrent Nets in gated recurrent
Nets and then STM
in soft max you know basically this is a
a two-way soft max you can think of it
this way and this is just a function
that goes kind of smoothly between 0 & 1
it's sometimes called a Fermi Dirac
function as well because it derives from
some work in physics it's equal physics
and then there is the hyperbola tangent
that we also talked about it's basically
identical to the sigmoid except it's
centered so it goes between minus 1 and
plus 1 and it's a little you know it's
twice the amplitude and the gain is a
little different but it plays the same
role
the advantage of hyperbolic tangent is
that the output is you can expect the
output to not have zero mean but get
close to having zero mean and again
that's advantageous for the weights that
follow because they see positive and
negative values and they tend to
converge faster that's the case so I
used to be a big fan of those
unfortunately if you stack a lot of
sigmoids in many layers you know in a
neural net you you you can tend to not
learn very efficiently you have to be
very careful about normalization if you
want the system to to converge if you
have many layers so in that sense the
the single kick functions are better for
deeper networks so it's signed this is
basically a bit like the sigmoid except
that it's it doesn't get to the
asymptotes as fast so it doesn't get
stuck towards the asymptotes as quickly
so one problem with hyperbolic tangent
and and the sigmoid is that we get close
to the asymptotes the the gradient goes
to zero fairly quickly and so if the
weights of a unit become too large they
kind of saturate this unit and the
gradients get very small and then the
the unit doesn't run very
very quickly anymore it's a problem that
exists both sorry both in sigmoids and
hyperbole tension and so such sign is a
function of that was proposed by your
venue and so these collaborators and it
kind of saturates slower and so it
doesn't have the that same problem I
mean it has the problem also but not to
the same extent okay and this is kind of
the opposite heart tangent hard 10h I
don't know if it deserves that name but
it's basically just a ramp okay
and that works surprisingly well
particularly if your weights are somehow
kept within a kind of small value so the
the units don't saturate too much it's
surprising how well it works and you
know people use this and service context
but that's sort of you know non-standard
so hard threshold is very rarely used
because you can't really propagate
gradient to it okay and this is really
what kept people from inventing back
prop in the 60s and 70s which is that
they were using binary neurons and so
they didn't think of the whole idea of
gradients because of that okay those
other functions are rarely used in the
context of neural nets or at least for
kind of activation function in a
traditional neuron that they used mostly
for sometimes for things like sparse
coding so one step in sparse coding
consists in to compute the value of the
latent variable consistent shrinking all
the values in the latent variable is the
agent vector by some value and you do
this with a shrink function a shrinkage
function this is kind of a soft version
of shrinkage function the hard version
is here I mean it's called soft shrink
soft shrink but it actually has corners
in it the reason it's called soft shrink
is because there is a hard shrink that
looks different did that show you in a
minute
so this basically just changes variable
by a constant toward zero right
and if he goes below zero it connect its
client at zero if it if it's brought too
long and so if the this is basically
just the identity function to which you
subtract hyperbola tangent to make it
look like a shrink shrink basically
design if we if we try to get the
whatever value close to zero and they
actually are forced to zero basically
right right so small values are forced
to zero others are shrunk toward zero
but you know it's a large enough they're
not going to get to zero so again that's
used mostly as you know you can think of
it as a step of gradient for an l1
criterion
okay so if you have a variable you have
an l1 cost function on it and you take a
step in the negative gradient of the one
so every one cost is an absolute value
this will cause the variable to kind of
go towards zero by a constant which is
the slope of that at one criterion and
to kind of stay at zero you know coming
from either side it doesn't kind of
overshoot if you want and so that that's
an on-ear function you use and that's
one of the steps in the East algorithm
that is used for inference in in sparse
coding but again it's it's really used
in sort of regular neural nets unless
your encoder is kind of used as kind of
a estimation of sparse coding this is
the hard shrink so hard shrink basically
clients every value smaller than lambda
to zero okay so if a value is smaller
than lambda or larger than - from there
sort of between minus lambda lambda when
lambda is some constant is just set it
to zero again it's used for things like
you know certain types of sparse coding
but rarely as an activation function in
the night so log sigmoid is mostly used
in cost functions not really as an
activation function either but it's a
useful function to have if you want to
plug this into into a loss function and
we'll see we'll see that ten minute
so something we've seen this is the same
as softmax except you have minus signs
so this is sort of more so that so those
are multi-dimensional nonlinearities all
right you you have a vector in and you
get a vector out which is at same size
as the input vector and we know about
softmax is you know exponential X I
divided by sum over J exponential X J
this is such min where you put a minus
sign in front of the X so you view the
X's if you want as energies instead of
scores as penalties instead of scores
it's a good way of turning a bunch of
numbers to something that looks a bit
like a probability distribution which
means numbers between 0 and 1 that's 1
to 1 and that's the softmax which we all
know so locks off max again it's not
very much used as a non-linearity within
the neural net but it's used a lot at
the output as kind of one piece of a
loss function it will see this in a
minute ok so those questions yes we have
a question so for pre low I'm not sure I
understand number one why we want the
same value for all channels and number
two how learning a it would actually be
advantages you could have a different a
for different channels so different
units can have a different a it could be
you could use it this as a as a
parameter very every unit or not you
could be shared that's gonna up to you
it could be shared at the level or a
feature map it accomplished on that or
it could be share all future maps or it
could be individual to every unit if you
really want to preserve the coalitional
nature of a commercial net you probably
want to have the same a for every unit
in the future that but you think you can
have different aids for different
feature Maps okay well it's the second
question why learning actually a
specific value would be advantages like
why are we learning a you can learn it
or not you can fix it the the reason for
fixing it would be you know not
necessarily to kind of have sort of more
powerful non-linearity but to kind of
ensure that the non-linearity gives you
a non 0 gradient even if it's even if
it's in the negative region so you know
runnable not nor lib not renewable so to
make it learnable allows the system to
basically turn a non-linearity into
either the linear mapping which of
course is not particularly interesting
but why not value or something like a
full rectification okay where a would be
minus 1 in the in the negative part
which you know can be it can be
interesting for certain types of
application so for example if you have
accomplish on that that has an edge
detector an edge detector as a priority
right it's it's got press coefficients
on one side minus coefficients on the
other side and so it's gonna react so if
you have an edge in an image that goes
from say dr. bright the you know the
composition will react positively to
this one but if you have another edge
from from you know in the opposite
direction then the the react the the
filter will react negatively now if you
want your filter to react to an edge
regardless of its priority you rectify
it okay so that would be kind of just
absolute value now you could of course
bake this in you know how to use a
prelude you can just use the absolute
value probably a better idea is to use a
square actually so you take the square
of square non-linearity it's not
implemented as kind of a neural net
non-linearity but you know in the
functional form of by torture just right
square and that's it hope answered the
question
any other question on this topic I have
a question it seems to me like these
nonlinearities are trying to basically
make a linear function nonlinear and the
tweak in the in the lines denote like
the change in that function so they can
we think of this as if we want to model
of curve in the line should we have
learnable
on both like before before the 0 and
after the 0 on the x-axis like well so
yeah I mean there is diminishing return
so the question is you know how complex
do you want your non-linearity to be so
you could imagine of course primate
rising an entire nonlinear function you
know with sprite parameters or busy
curves or something like this right or I
don't know chebyshev polynomials you
know I mean you can probably try any any
mapping you want right you can imagine
those those parameters could be part of
the learning process however you know
what is the advantage of doing this
versus just you know having more units
in your in your system and relying on
the fact that multiple units will be
added in the end to approximate the
function you want generally it really
depends on what like if you want to to
do regression in a fairly low
dimensional space so perhaps you want
some parameterize nonlinearities that
might help you might have like you might
want to have a collection of different
nonlinearities with maybe things like
like gbj polynomials if you want to do
good approximation approximations but
for like you know high dimensional tasks
like image recognition or things like
this you just want a non-linearity and
it works better if the non-linearity is
monotonic otherwise it creates all kinds
of issues because you could have two
points that will produce the same output
and so it's you land videos for the
system to learn the right function there
so you want it it's it's much better if
the function is monotonic and almost all
the functions here are monotonic except
if you have a negative a here in the in
the prelude case there's big advantage
to having monotonic functions but in
principle you could probably try as you
know any function you want people are
played with this you know they're not
very popular because mostly they don't
seem to be bringing a huge advantage in
in the kind of applications that people
use a large neural nets for other
questions another question is going to
be keen commercial smooth yeah
I should never have any application with
the choice so funny
yeah teas made of bacon packed the only
thing I'm aware of is using a single
function silica double King for DPL
networks healthily in better well so
here's a party with double kick double
kick has a built-in scale in it which
means if you're it's a waste of the
incoming layer are multiplied by two or
the signal amplitude is multiplied by 2
the result on the output would be
completely different right yeah because
you will be you know the signal would be
more in the non-linearity so so you'll
get completely different behavior of
your layer whereas if you have a
function with only one King if you
multiply the input by two with the
output it's also multiplied by two in a
modulo bias but the signal device is
fine so what I mean to ask you something
of a situation with a choice of
activation function made a big
difference in the performance of the
model except for the in networks using
today move instead of sigmoid there is
no sort of general answer to this like
if you're going to use attention you
have to use softmax I mean you have no
choice right I mean it's not like you
have to use shaft softmax but you want
to have something where you get
coefficients right to to kind of focus
the attention of the system on or to
kind of spread the attention of the
system and not allow it to cheat which
is to pay attention to multiple things
at one time you have to have some sort
of normalization of the of the
coefficients that come out of the
attention system right so so normally in
most attention systems like in
transformers and stuff the the
coefficients are passed through softmax
so you get a bunch of coefficients that
are between 0 & 1 & 7 to 1 and so that
causes the system to have to pay
attention to you know a small number of
things right you can only concentrate
the coefficients on a small number of
items and it has to spread it right
there are other ways to do normalization
you you can do and in fact is something
that's wrong with softmax normalization
for for for transformers or for
attention which is that if you want a
coefficient coming out with softmax to
be close to zero
you need the input to be close to minus
infinity okay or to be considerably
smaller than the largest one right when
you go into the softmax when I put the
largest input is going to cause the
corresponding output to be the to be
large if you want that I'd put to be
close to one and all the other ones to
be close to zero you basically want this
input to be extremely large and all the
other ones to be large and negative okay
now that you know that that can be a
problem when the what you are computing
the input are our dot products because
the result is that you know the easiest
way for a system to to produce a small
dot product is to have two vectors that
are orthogonal to each other which gives
the dot product is zero if you insist
that the dot product should be very very
small
then either you have to make the so you
have to make the two vectors basically
point in opposite directions and you
have to make them very long and that's
not so great and so using softmax for
attention basically limits the the the
contrast that you're gonna have between
two coefficients which is not
necessarily a good thing
so you know same thing for ASTM gates
gated recurrent Nets etc you you need
Sigma it's there because you need
coefficients there are between 0 and 1
you know that either
we set the memory cell or make it a
fast-food so that it keeps it so it's
previous memory or kind of right the the
new input in it so there it's nice to
have
an output that varies continuously
between zero and one there you have no
choice so I mean I don't think you can
say just you know in generic term you
know this this non-linearity is better
than this other one there are certain
cases where it learns better though
certain cases where it relieves you from
having to initialize properly the
certain cases where it works better if
you have lots of layers like you know
single click functions work better if
you have lots of layers better than
Sigma large functions there's no kind of
logical answer I had a question just
regarding the general differences
between a nonlinear activation that has
kinks versus a smooth nonlinear
activation yeah is there sort of any
general reason or rule to why we would
prefer to have kinks in the function or
not it's a matter of scale invariant of
scale equivariance so if the kick is
hard again you multiply the input by 2
the output is multiplied by 2 but
otherwise unchanged okay if you have a
smooth transition if you multiply the
input by let's say 100 the output now
will look like you had a hard kick okay
because the the smooth part now it's
become shrunk by a factor of 100 if you
divide the input by 100 now the the cake
becomes a very very smooth sort of
convex functions okay so it changes the
behavior but by changing the scale the
input you change the behavior of the of
the unit and that might be a problem
sometimes because when you when you
train a multi-layer neural net and you
have two layers that are one after the
other you don't have a good control for
like how big the weights of this layer
are relative to that other way so
imagine you have a two layer Network
where you don't have a non-linearity in
the middle so the system is completely
linear right if the network has arrived
at the solution you can multiply the
incoming the the first layer weight
matrix by two divide the second weight
matrix by two
and overall the network will have
exactly the same output okay you won't
have changed anything and what that
means is that when you do training there
is nothing that forces the system to
have a particular scale for the weight
matrices all right
so now if you put a non-linearity in the
middle and you still don't have it
because train for the system to kind of
you know have scales for the first leg
of weight versus the second leg away
that you know you'd better have a
non-linearity that doesn't care about
scale okay so if you have non-linearity
that does care about scales about scale
then your network doesn't have a choice
of what size weight matrix it can use in
the first layer because that will
completely change the behavior and you
may want to have large weights for some
other reason which will saturate the
non-linearity and then kind of create
you know vanishing gradient issues so I
it's not entirely clear you know what
why is it that you know did networks
work better with single King functions
but it's probably due to that scale
invariance property let's get a quick
variance property now there would be
other ways of fixing this fixing this
problem which would be to basically set
a heart scale on the weights of every
layer so you couldn't like normalize the
weights of the layers so that the the
the variance that of things that go into
unit you know it's always constant in
fact that's a little bit with batch
normalization does so the various
normalization schemes they do that to
some extent you know they could mean at
zero and and the variance is constant so
so now the variance of the amplitude of
the output doesn't depend on the size of
the weights because it's not wise so you
know that is partially why things like
like like that norm and good norm and
things like this help is because they
can fix the scale a little bit but then
if you fix the scale then with something
like that norm you don't the system now
doesn't have any way of choosing which
part of the non-linearity it's going to
use in the to cake function system
okay so things like group normalization
or batch normalization are incompatible
with kin sigmoids if you want share a
sigmoid you don't want normalization
just before it see that provides some
really good intuition thank you okay I
have one more question I noticed in a
soft malfunction some people use the
temperature coefficient so in what cases
would we want to use their temperature
and why would we use it well to so to
some extent the temperature is redundant
with incoming weights so if you have
weighted sounds coming into your softmax
you know having a data parameter in your
softmax equal to two instead of one it's
the same as just making your waste twice
as big it has exactly the same effect
okay so that beta parameter is redundant
with the size of the weights but again
if you were or the size of the weighted
sum the variance of the weighted stones
if you want but again if you have a
batch normalization in there then the
temperature parameter matters because
now the input variances are fixed so so
now the the temperature matters
temperature basically new controls how
hard the the you know the the
distribution on the output will be so
with a very very large beta you
basically will have one of the outputs
equal to one and all the other ones
really close to zero I mean very close
to one and very close to zero where beta
is small then this software in the limit
of beta equal to zero it's more like an
average actually that you get like soft
max behaves a little bit like an average
so you know beta goes infinity at it so
behaves a bit like AG Max and there goes
to zero it behaves of it like reckon
average so so if you have some sort of
normalization before the softmax then
tuning is parameter allows you to
control this could have hardness and
what people do sometimes in certain
scenarios is that they start with a
relatively low beta so that the the
numbers that are produced are kind of
soft so you get gradients everywhere you
know it's kind of well-behaved in terms
of gradient
and then as running proceeds if you want
kind of harder decisions in your
attention mechanism or whatever you
increase data and so that makes the
system kind of make harder decisions it
doesn't run as well anymore but it's you
know presumably after a few iterations
it's kind of in the right ballpark so
you can sort of sharpen the the
decisions there but can be increasing
data it's useful for example in a
mixture of mixture of experts and you
know self attention systems are kind of
you can think of as sort of a form of a
weird form of mixture of experts so a
mixture of experts you know you have
multiple sub networks and their outputs
are can linearly combine with
coefficients that are the output of the
softmax itself could you know controlled
by another neural net so if you want
kind of a soft mixture you have a low
beta and as you increase their to
infinity basically you're going to
select one of the experts and ignore all
the other ones there might be useful for
example if you want to train a mixture
of experts or an attention mechanism but
in the end you want to save computation
by just determining which expert do I
need to compute and just not computing
the other ones so in that case you want
those coefficients to be basically
either one or zero and and you can train
the system progressively to do this by
increasing increasing data this is
called the physicists have a name for
this because it uses kind of tricks or
various other things that's called
annealing it has the same meaning as so
annealing comes from metalwork right you
you're making a steel or something and
you make a sword or something right and
you heat it up and then you you you you
you cool it and depending on whether you
cool it quickly or slowly you'll you
change the crystal no crystalline
structure of the of the metal so this
idea of annealing of progressively
lowering the temperature correspond to
this increasing this beta beta is like
an inverse temperature it's akin to an
inverse temperature any other question
I think we are good all right okay so
next topic is lost functions so PI torch
has a whole bunch of loss functions as
you might have seen and of course there
are things are simple ones like like
mean square error so I don't need to
explain to you what it is you know
compute the square of the error between
the desired output Y and actually I put
X and if it's already bet with n samples
then you have you know n losses one for
each of the samples in the batch and you
can you can tell this last function to
either keep that vector or to kind of
reduce it by academia or some okay
pretty simple mmm here's a different
loss that's the everyone knows so this
is basically the absolute value of the
difference between between the desired
output and the actual output and you
want to use this to do what's called
robust regression so if you want small
errors to count a lot and large errors
to count but you know not as much as if
you use the square
perhaps because you have noise in your
data so you know that you have a bunch
of data points you're trying to kind of
train and know on that to something to
kind of you know fit a curve or you know
do regression but you know that you have
a few outliers so you have a few points
there are you know very far away from
what they should be just because you
know the system as noise or something or
the data was collected with with some
noise so you want the system to be
robust to that noise you don't want the
cost function to increase too quickly as
the points are far away from you know
the kind of the general curve so at one
loss will be more robust now the problem
with that one loss is that it's not
differentiable at the bottom and so you
know you have to kind of be careful when
you get to the bottom of how you how you
do the the gradient that's basically
done with this soft shrink essentially
that's that's the
everyone knows now to correct for that
people have come up with various ways of
kind of making the l1 notes for bus for
large losses but then still smooth at
the bottom kind of behaving like squad
error at the bottom so an example of
this is is this particular function
smooth say one loss it's basically a one
far away and it's sort of l2 nearby and
that presents sometimes that's called a
Google loss some people call this also
elastic Network because it's an old
paper from the 1980s or 1990s that kind
of proposed this this kind of objective
function for different purpose so that's
useful that was advertised by was
gaerste confess our CNN paper for and
it's used quite a bit in Cuba division
for survivors purposes again it's for
protecting against outliers sharper
jesus also sharper results now when we
do like image prediction sharper than
using the MSE not particularly I mean
it's it's just like the MSE for small
errors okay so that doesn't make any
difference but it it doesn't
or maybe I misunderstood what your point
was sorry I was trying to compare the l1
versus the in the l2 that the l2 gives
us like usually blurry blurry
predictions whenever we try to do
prediction by using like the l2
minimizing the l2 weather whereas like
people are minimizing the l1 in order to
have like sharper overall predictions
okay so if you take if you take a bunch
of points okay if you take a bunch of
y-values okay and you ask the question
what value so you take a bunch of points
on on why okay yeah you ask the question
what value of y minimizes
the squirrel Ellis the answer is that
it's the average of all the whites okay
okay so if you so if for a single X you
have a whole bunch of wise which means
you have noise in your data your system
will want to produce the average of all
the ways that you're observing okay and
if the Y you're observing is not a
single value but is I don't know an
image the average of a bunch of images
is a blurry image okay
that's why you get those very effects
now with air one the value of y that
minimizes the l1 norm the l1 distance so
basically the sum of the absolute values
of the differences between the value
you're considering and all the points
all the white points that's the median
okay so it's it's a given point all
right uh-huh and I see media and of
course it's not blurry it's just an
image although it's kind of difficult to
define in multiple dimensions but so one
problem with this loss is that it has a
scale right so here the transition here
is at point five but why should it be at
point five you know it could be it
depends what the scale of your of your
errors are okay negative exactly who
lost this is really not the negative of
likelihood loss I'm not sure why it's
called this way by torch but basically
here imagine that you have an X vector
coming out okay and you your loss
function is there is one correct X okay
so imagine each X correspond to a score
for lies a multi-class classification
right so you have a desired class which
is one particular index in that vector
okay now what you want is you want to
make that score as large as possible
okay if those scores are likelihoods
then this is minimum negative log
likelihood if those scores are log
likelihoods and this is maximum
likelihood or minimum negative log
likelihood
okay but there is nothing in this module
that actually specifies that the elds
have to be log likelihoods so this is
just you know make my desired component
as large as possible that's it
if you put negative signs in front so
now you you can interpret the axis as
energies as opposed to scores okay
they're not called six-course they're
like they're like penalties if you want
but it's the same so the formula here
says you know just pick the X that
happens to be the correct one for one
sample in the batch and make that score
as large as possible now this particular
one allows you to give a different way
to different to different categories
which is W those w's it's a it's a
weight vector that gives a way to each
of the each of the categories it's
useful in a lot of cases particularly if
you have widely different frequencies
for the for the categories you might
want to increase the weight of samples
for which you have a small number of
examples I mean for categories for which
you have a small number of samples
however I'm actually not a big fan of
this of this I think it's a much better
idea to just increase the frequency of
the of the samples from the classes for
the class I have you know that appears
rarely so that you equalize the
frequency the frequencies of the classes
when you train it's much better because
it exploits stochastic gradient in a
better way okay so so the bottom line of
that is if you have let me actually draw
a picture of this so let's say you have
a problem where you have tons of samples
for category one and then the small
number of samples for category two in a
tiny number of samples for category
three you could so let's say you know
here you have I don't know a thousand
samples and here you have
500 samples and you have I don't know
200 samples right so you could do is
using this this kind of weight function
you could give this a weight of of 1 and
this guy weight of 2 and this guy weight
of 5 and then you can equalize the
weights if you want it's really better
to make sure that the way it's
normalized to 1 that would be probably a
better idea but what I recommend is not
that what I recommend is when you pick
your samples you basically pick one
sample from class 1 and then one sample
from class 2 and super from class 3 and
then you know you keep doing this during
your training session and when you get
to the end of class 3 you go back to the
beginning ok so you keep going here but
here you go back to the first sample
keep going here go back and now you have
the second sample ok and now you get to
the end of class to go back to the start
ok so the next sample is going to be
here here and here and then the next one
here here and here here here and then
this guy wraps around again etc right so
you basically have equal probability
equal frequencies for all the categories
but just going through those kind of
circular buffers more often for
categories for which you have fewer
samples ok once you should absolutely
never do is equalize the frequencies by
by just not using all the samples in
categories that are frequent I mean
that's horrible you should never let any
data on the floor it's never any reason
to leave that on the floor ok now here's
a problem with this the problem with
this is that after you've trained your
your neuron that to do this you know one
that does not know about the relative
likelihood the relative frequencies of
the samples and so let's say this is a
system that those medical diagnoses it
doesn't know that the common cold is
a way more frequent than you know lung
cancer or something right so what you
need to do in the end is do a pass a few
passes perhaps where you can fine tune
your system so that with the actual
frequencies of the categories and the
effect of this is going to be for the
system to adapt the biases at the output
layer so that the likelihood of you know
diagnosis corresponds to the the
frequency of it right it's gonna favor
things that are more frequent the reason
why I don't want to do this during the
entire training is because if you train
a multi-layer net the the the system
basically never develops the right
features for rare cases and they have
spoken about this already in the class
in in past weeks to kind of recycle the
example of medical school you you don't
spend when you go to medical school you
don't spend time studying the food that
is proportional to the frequency of the
food with respect to very rare diseases
for example right you spend basically
the same time studying all the diseases
in fact you spend more time studying
complicated one which usually tend to be
rarer and that's because you need to
develop the features for it okay and
then you need to kind of correct for the
fact that you know those rare diseases
are rare so you don't do that that you
know you don't suspect the diagnosis for
rare diseases very often because you
know it's rare okay so that's all for
for weights question tributo so you'll
be using this a lot of course and cross
country pillows is a kind of merging of
two things merging of lot softmax
function and negative low likelihood
loss okay and so and the reason why you
want to have this is for numerical
reasons
so the locks off max is you know
basically the softmax followed by log
right so you first compute the softmax
then you do the log if you do softmax
and then log and you back propagate
through this you might have gradients in
the middle between the log and the
softmax that end up being infinite so
for example if if the the maximum value
of one of the stars max is close to one
and some of the other ones are close to
zero you take the log you get something
that's close to minus infinity you back
propagate through the log you get
something that's close to infinity okay
because the the slope of vlog goes to
zero is very very close to infinity but
now you multiply this by a soft max that
is saturated so it's multiplied by
something that's very close to zero so
in the end you get a reasonable number
but because the intermediate numbers are
close to infinity or 0 you multiply plus
something that's close to plus infinity
by something that's close to 0 you get
numerical issues so you don't want to
separate log and soft max you want to do
lots of Max in one in one go it
simplifies the formula it makes the
whole thing much more stable numerically
and for similar reasons you also want to
merge lots of Max and get you really
good loss so basically if you have locks
off Max and you get you've
log-likelihood loss it says I got a
bunch of weighted sums and a percent
through soft max I'm going to take the
log of those and then I want to make the
the output of the log short max for the
correct class as large as possible okay
that's what the negative load actually
lost does it wants to make the score of
the correct class as large as possible
we saw that just a minute ago right when
you back propagate through the blocks
off max as a consequence it's going to
make the score of all the other classes
as small as possible
right because of the normalization and
so that you know that's why sometimes
the the whole idea of sort of building a
network by you know modules
sometimes there is an advantage instead
of merging in modules into
single wine by end right so so the cross
entropy does in fact this explains a
little bit you know those numerical
simplifications so the loss you know
takes an X Factor and a category a
desired category a class okay and
computes the negative log of the softmax
applied to the vector of scores but the
one that's on the numerator numerator
here is the the X of the index of the
correct class okay so that's that's your
loss the negative log of exponential the
score of the correct class divided by
the sum of the Exponential's all the
scores okay you can think of the X's as
negative energies okay it's completely
equivalent now when you do the math and
you simplify your the log and the
Exponential's gonna simplify and so you
just get the score of the correct class
the negative score of the correct class
okay so to make that small you make the
score large and then press the log of
the sum of the Exponential's of the
scores of all the other class to make
that small you make all the edges small
negative as far as fat you know as
negative as possible okay so this will
make the score of the correct class
large like this core of everything else
small again like in the aisle you can
you can have a weight per category also
there is a physical interpretation right
of the cross entropy right okay so why
is it called course entropy because it
is the cross entropy between two
distributions
it's the KL divergence really between
two distributions
it doesn't appear clearly here in this
formula but think of the softmax applied
to the X vector as a distribution okay
so take the X Factor's this course
rather than to a softmax you get a bunch
of numbers between 0 & 1 that's 1 2
and now you have a desired distribution
and the desired distribution the target
distribution if you want is one in which
all the wrong categories had zero and
the correct category has one okay now
compute the KL divergence between those
two distributions okay so it's the sum
over indices of the correct probability
okay which is zero for except for one
term times the ratio between the log of
the the probability that the system
produces and the correct probability
which is one okay so all of those terms
you know reduce to kind of a single term
which is just the one for which the
correct probability term is one okay so
we end up with this with this term it's
just a negative log of the softmax
output for the correct class okay we can
use this as a cross entropy between the
distribution produced by the system and
the one hot vector corresponding to the
desired distribution if you want okay so
now there is a there would be another
can a more sophisticated version of this
which would be the actual KL divergence
between the distribution produced by the
system and a distribution that you
propose whatever it is a target
distribution which now is not binary
it's not the one hard vector anymore but
it's just a vector of numbers and that's
called the KL divergence in fact it's
we'll see it in a minute so Kerala
vergence is a kind of you know it's not
a distance because it's not symmetric
but it's a sort of a divergence between
between distributions discrete
distributions okay so this one is a bit
of a kind of a extension if you want of
lakhs of Max and it's a version of it
that is applicable for very very large
categorization so if you have many many
many categories what you might want to
do is kind of cut some corners you don't
want to compute the giant softmax over
million categories or maybe even more so
there you can sort of basically ignore
the ones that are small and you know
kind of use tricks to kind of you know
improve the speed of the of the
computation and this is what this does
I'm not going to go into the details
exactly what it does because actually I
don't know the details but but it's
basically an efficient approximation
softmax for a very very large number of
categories so this is a special case of
course entropy when you only have two
categories and in that case it kind of
reduces to something simple so this does
not include stuff max this is just a
quest entropy when you have two
categories and as I as I said before the
the the cross entropy loss is the sum of
our categories of the probability I mean
some of our indices or some of our
categories of the probability for the
target the target probability for that
category times the ratio between the log
of the probability for of produced by
the system divided by the probability of
the target category and if you work it
out for two categories necessarily one
score is one minus the other one if you
have two exclusive categories and and it
comes down to this
okay now this presupposes that x and y
is x and y are kind of probabilities
they have to be between strictly between
0 & 1
I mean not strictly but well kind of
strictly because otherwise the logs
gonna blow up here is the KL divergence
process I was to tell you about earlier
so here it's the
I mean it it's it's real turn here in a
funny form but it's basically the here
again it's it sort of assumes this is
another one I was telling you about
earlier actually this one is also a
simplified one when you have a a one hot
distribution for the target so why is
it's a category but it has the
disadvantage of not being merged with
something like softmax or log softmax so
it may reach I mean it may have kind of
numerical issues again it assumes x and
y are you know distributions
this is values personal loss okay so
this version of binary choice entropy
here takes scores that haven't gone
through sigmoid so this one does not
assume that X the x's are between 0 & 1
it just takes you know values whatever
they are and it it passes them to a
sigmoid to make sure there are between 0
& 1 strictly ok and so that is more
likely to be a numerically stable it's a
bit the same ideas kind of emerging
locks off max and you get your lucky
hood very yeah same thing here that's
what I was talking okay margin losses so
this is sort of a important category of
losses those losses basically say if I
have in this case two inputs the last
function here says I want one input to
be larger than the other one by at least
two margin okay so imagine the two
inputs or scores for two categories you
want the score for the correct category
to be larger than the score for the
incorrect category but it hits some
margin that you passed through the
system and that's the the formula you
see down there so it's basically a him
okay and it takes the difference between
the two scores and so why is a binary
variable this plus one or minus one and
it controls whether you want X to be
larger than x1 to be larger than x2 or
whether you want x2 to be larger than x1
okay we basically give you two scores
and you tell it which one you want to be
the larger score and then the cost
function says you know if this one is
larger than that one by at least a
margin then the cost is zero if it's if
if it's smaller than the margin or if
it's in the other direction and the cost
increases linearly okay so that's called
a hingeless okay so that's very useful
for a number of different things we've
we've seen an example of this in so yeah
for example so this is sort of a margin
ranking class so you have two values but
there are sort of is a simplified
version of it I mean there's a simpler
version of it which I don't have here
for some reason we only have an X okay
so basically the loss is max of 0 and
minus X times the margin and it just
wants to make to make X smaller than the
margin right and so this is sort of a
special case where you have a ranking
between two scores of two categories so
here is how you would use this for
classification you would basically run
your classifier you would get scores ok
idea so before you do any non-linearity
weighted sums and then you know the
correct category so you say I want this
correct category to have a high score
and then what you do is you take another
category that has the most offending
score so either another category so a
category that is incorrect that has a
higher score than the correct one or
that has a lower score but the lowest
score is too close ok so you take the
the category that whose core is the
closest to the to the correct one or who
score is higher than the correct one and
you feed those two scores to the last
function like this so basically it's
going to push up the score in the
correct category push down the score the
incorrect category until the difference
is that eastern margin equal to the
margin okay that's you know a perfectly
good way of training something in the
context of an energy-based model for
example that's the sort of things you
might want to do you might want to say X
1/4 minus x1 is the energy I mean X you
know minus X 1 will be the energy of the
correct answer and minus X 2 would be
the energy of the incorrect answer like
an a contrastive term an incorrect
answer and you want to push down the
energy of the correct answer which are
the energy of incorrect answer so that
the difference is at least some margin
okay can use this kind of laws for that
the to play Clause is gonna be
refinement on this so this is used a lot
for metric learning for the kind of
Sammys nets that each n was each and
mister I was talking about last week and
and there the idea is let's say I have a
distance so let's say I have three
samples I have one sample and another
sample is very similar to it I've run
them through to commercial Nets I get
two vectors I compute the distance
between those two vectors D of a IP I
for example okay I want to make this
distance as small as possible because
that's the core example and then I take
two samples that I know are semantically
different ok the image of a cat and
whatever table and I want to make the
vector as far away from each other so I
compute the distance I want to make this
distance large alright now I can insist
that the first is done B zero and it can
insist that the second distance be
larger than the margin that would be
kind of a margin loss type type thing
but what I can do is one of those
triplet margin notes where I say the
only thing I care about is that the
distance that I get for the good
is smaller than the distance that I get
for the bad pit I don't care if the
distance is small I just wanted to be
smaller than the distance for the bad
pair okay and that's what those ranking
goes to a bunch of those were I mean one
of the first I think that was proposed
was by Chisholm Weston and Sammy bengio
back when Jaden Weston was today Google
and they used this to train kind of an
image search system for Google so back
then I'm not sure is true anymore but
back then you would type a query on
Google Google would encode that query
into a vector then we compare this to a
whole bunch of vectors describing images
that I've been previously indexed and
and then would kind of retrieve the
images whose vector were close to the
one that that you had and the way you
train those those the networks that
compute those vectors in that case back
then it was in your networks actually as
you train them with those trip pillows
okay so you said good hits for my search
should should have a distance between
the vectors that is smaller than any bad
hit and I don't care if the distance is
small I just wanted to be smaller than
for that it's any question that's kind
of a graphical explanation of this where
P is a positive sample so it's you know
similar to a so a is the sample you
considered P is kind of a positive
sample and N is a negative sample
contrast example you want to push anyway
and bring P closer and as soon as P is
closer than n by some margin you you
stop pushing and pulling your soft
versions of this and in fact you can
think of nce the the kind of loss
function that hn was talking about as
kind of a soft version of that where you
basically you have a bunch of positives
and bunch of negatives or you have one
positive and bunch of negatives and
you run them through softmax and you say
I want this the you know e to the minus
distance for the correct one to be
smaller than you know e to the minus the
other one so it kind of you pushes the
positive closer to you and pushes the
other ones further to you but now with
some sort of stuff maxi that sort of
exponential decay as opposed to sort of
a hard margin so in PI torch you have
things that allow you to have multi
labels so this allows you to basically
give multiple correct outputs so instead
of you know this is a ranking Mouse but
it's serving sitting that there is only
one correct category and you know you
you you want a high score for the
correct category and that's core for
everything else here you can have a
number of categories for which you want
high scores and then all the other ones
will get pushed away
all right we'll get the scores will be
pushed down so here it's a it's a hinge
loss but you do a sum of those this
hinge loss overall categories and and
for each category if the category is a
desired one you push it up if it's a non
desire one you push it down which is
what this video formula says and of
course you have the soft version of this
which I'm not going to go into the
details of and the multi margin version
of it so this pushing and pulling for
metric learning for embedding for Sammis
nets that I would say telling you about
it's actually kind of all implemented if
you want in one of those engine vending
laws so engine 30 loss is a loss for
Siamese nets that kind of pushes things
are semantically similar to you and push
away things that are not okay so the Y
variable indicates whether the pair you
are or whether the score you are giving
to the system is one that should be
pushed up a window should be pushed down
and it it chooses the hinge loss that
makes the score
positive if Y is plus one and it makes a
score negative by some margin Delta if
if Y is minus one
very often when you are doing
Siamese Nets the way you compute the
similarity between two vectors is not
through Euclidean distance between
cosine distance so the one minus the
cosine between the of the angle between
the two vectors this is basically a
normalized Euclidean distance if you
want you can think of it this way the
advantage of this is that whenever you
can push the distance whenever your two
vectors and you want to make the
distance as large as possible there's a
very easy way for the system to get away
with it by making the the two vectors
very large very long you know not
pointing in the same direction and make
them very very long so now the distance
would be large but of course that's not
what you want you don't want the system
to just make the the vectors bigger you
wanted to actually rotate the vector in
the right direction so you you normalize
the vectors and then computer normalize
Euclidean distance and that's basically
what this does and what this does is
that it for positive cases it tries to
make the vectors as aligned with each
other as possible and for negative pairs
it tries to make the cosine smaller than
the particular margin the margin in that
case which should probably be something
that kind of is close to zero so you
want the the cosine you know in a high
dimensional space there's a lot of space
near the equator of the sphere of the
high dimensions here okay so all your
points now are normalized so this here
what you want is samples that are
symmetrically similar to you should be
close to you the samples that are
dissimilar should be orthogonal you
don't want them to be Oppo opposed
because there is only one point in the
South Pole whereas on the equator is a
very very high large space the entire
sphere minus one dimension basically
okay so you can make the margin just you
know some small so small positive value
and and then you get the entire equator
essentially of this here which contains
you almost the entire volume of the
sphere and I dimension
since you see loss this is a little more
complicated because that's a task that
is basically uses structure prediction
what's called structure prediction so
this is I sort of briefly talked about
it very quickly a few weeks ago was
something very similar to this so this
is it also is applicable when you your
output is a sequence of vectors and
scores where the vectors correspond to
scores of categories okay and so you
have so your system computes a vector of
such score so imagine for example speech
recognition system speech recognition
system every 10 milliseconds gives you a
vector of probabilities for what the
sound being pronounced right now is and
the number of categories usually is
quite large on the order of a few
thousand okay so give you basically a
softmax vector of a size you know
typically three thousand let's say one
of those every 10 milliseconds all right
and what you like you know you have a
desired output and the desired output is
what word was being pronounced and a
word that's being pronounced that
corresponds to kind of a particular
sequence of sounds if you want that you
might you might know so what you need
now is a course that basically is row if
that sequence looks like like that
sequence but what you might allow is for
the input sequence to repeat some of the
sounds if you want right so so for
example you know my my cost to make the
target might be the word seven they say
and it's pronounced really quickly 7 so
you basically have you know a very small
number of samples of each sound in the
sequence but then perhaps the the person
who is pronouncing the the word now that
user as a training sample pronounced it
very slowly like seven right so now the
the first the first takes you know
several several frames of 10
milliseconds that should all be mapped
to the the same
instance of the earth in the indian foot
and i do that picture before but i gonna
do it again right so the you have let's
see you have a sequence of scores coming
out of soft max's let's say it's
actually better if there are energies
but firstly TC they need to be and then
you have the target sequence and i think
of this as some sort of matrix and each
entry in that matrix basically measures
the distance between the two vectors
that are here okay so when i'm treating
the matrix indicates how this vector
looks like that vector for example with
the course entropy or something like
that okay or is quite error it doesn't
matter what the last function is so now
if this is the word seven pronounced
slowly okay and this has perhaps only
one instance of each sound you want all
of those you know you would want all of
those vectors corresponding to the e to
be mapped to that vector here okay so
you want to compute that cost of you
know confusing that those all of those I
mean
map matching those ease to that to that
e now of course here the system could
use the correct answer so you don't have
much of a problem but if the target is
seven but the word that was pronounced
here or the output that was produced by
the system does not correspond to seven
that's that's that's when you run into
into trouble so
here what you do is you find the best
mapping from the input sequence to the
output sequence okay so the s gets
mapped to the s the e to the e the V to
the V the east to the e and the end to
the N so you get this kind of path if
you want that think of this as a path in
the graph
and the way you determine this is
basically by using a dynamic programming
algorithm the short path algorithm that
figures out how do I get from here to
here you know path that minimizes the
sum of the distance distances between
the the all the vectors of the distances
between the vectors of you know all the
points are going through ok so there's a
optimization respect to a latent
variable if you want okay and CGC
basically decide for you right so you
give it two sequences and it computes
the distance between them and you know
kind of the best kind of mapping between
the two by allowing basically to to map
multiple input vectors to kind of a
single one on the output it cannot
expand it it can only kind of reduce if
you want and then that's done in a way
that you can back propagate gradient to
it we'll come back to this two more
things like this at the end if you can
oops so this is what this the target is
assumed to be many-to-one the alignment
of the input to the target is assumed to
be miniature when which leave is the
length of the target sequence such that
it must be smaller than the length of
the input that's for the reason I just
explained okay so it's basically
differentiable time-warping you could
think of it this way or sort of a module
that does that any time marking or
dynamic programming and it's still
differentiable the idea for this goes
back in the early 90s in the Lobo two
species actually that's very old very a
good paper or resource to learn more
about that dynamic programming algorithm
there actually that's kind of what I'm
gonna talk about next I may not have
time to go through it but
I'll try to okay but basically the last
part of the energy based model tutorial
okay
so the initial base model tutorial the
2006 paper that we give you a reference
a link to a tutorial on energy based
models the this the second part is all
about this kind of stuff essentially
okay so it's more energy based models
but now in getting more of a supervised
context if you want
so preliminary so before I get to this I
want to come back to the sort of more
general formulation of energy based
models and the idea that so if you want
to kind of define energy based models in
the proper way these are the conditional
versions you have a a training set a
bunch of pairs x y y I for I equals 1 to
P you have a loss function also the last
functional L of ENS so it takes the
energy function computed by the system
okay and the training set and it gives
you a scalar value now you can you can
think of this as a functional functional
is a function of a function ok but in
fact because the energy function itself
is parametrized by parameter W you can
turn this functional into a loss
function which is not just a function of
W another function of the energy
function okay and of course the the set
of energy functions is called epsilon
here it's family tries by the parameter
W which is taken within the set so
training consistent of course minimizing
the the loss function or with respect to
W and finding the W that minimizes it
and and so one question you might ask
yourself you know I went to a whole
bunch of objective function loss
functions here and the question is if
you are in an energy based framework
what loss functions are good ones and
what all functions are bad ones how do
you characterize a loss function that
actually will do something useful for
you ok
so here is a general formulation of the
last function it's it's an average over
training samples so here I'm kind of
assuming that it's invariant under
permutation of the samples so an average
is as good as any other aggregation
go-getting function so it's the average
of our training samples of a person for
loss function capital L and it takes the
desired answer Y which could be just a
category or it could be a whole image or
whatever and it takes the energy
function where X the X variable X I is
is equal to X I the ice training sample
the Y variable is undetermined okay so e
of W Y and X I is basically the entire
shape of the energy function for values
of Y over values of Y for a given X okay
X equal to X I and you can have a
regularizer if you want okay so here
this is a loss functional again again of
course we have to design this loss
function all so that it makes the energy
of correct answers small and the energy
of incorrect answers large in some ways
right ok now we're going to go through a
bunch of different types of loss
functions so one thing we could do is
say my loss function is just going to be
the energy of the correct answer so I'm
gonna place myself in the context of
energy based model my system produces
scores I interpret those scores as
energies so high is bad good is good
that means low is good as opposed to
positive scores and what I'm just going
to do is define my energy functional as
unfortunately the energy function of the
function of Y as simply the energy that
my model gives to the correct answer
okay so basically I give it an X and I
give it the correct answer Y and as a
system what energy do you give to that
pair and then I try to make that energy
as small as possible okay so you have
this landscape of energy
is here now we honor I showed you this
slide in the context of unsupervised
super Ronnie here I'm showing to you in
the context of supervised Ronnie so
imagine that one of the variables is X
and the other variable is y okay and the
blue beads are training samples and you
want to make the energy of the blue
beads as far as possible so you're
pulling down on the blue beads but
you're not doing anything else and so as
a result depending on the architecture
or your network if your network is not
designed properly or if it's designing a
bit in no particular way it could very
well be that the energy function is
going to become flat everywhere okay
you're just trying to make the energy of
the correct answer small are you not
telling the system the energy of
everything else should be higher and so
the system might just collapse
all right so energy loss is not good in
that sense but there are certain
situations where it's applicable because
if the shape of the energy function is
such that it cannot make the you can
only make the energy of a single answer
small all the other ones being larger
then you need to have a quadratic term
okay and we've seen this in the context
of supervised learning people are
completely lost about the loss
functional right okay so this is a
function Al and it's a function of
another function e okay
so it's called a functional because it's
a function of a function right it's not
a function of a point it's a function of
a function now if that second function
is permit rised by a parameter W then
you can say that the last function is
actually a function of that parameter W
now it becomes a regular function okay
that's what I had can you can you write
it down
it's basically written here okay you can
either write the functional as if I can
find it as L of e and s so that's a
functional because it's a function of e
which itself is a function okay but e
itself is a function of W and so if I
write the last function directly as a
function of W now it's just a regular
function
okay yeah I mean I asked the question
that was asked in the chat I yeah I was
kind of you I know before that you know
for okay we've seen the negative log
likelihood loss before I talked about
this so this is a loss function that
tries to make the energy of the correct
answer so look at the rectangle in red
answer as low as possible and then you
have the second term whatever beta log
sum over all why's of e to the minus
beta e of WI X and this one is trying to
make the energy of all Y's for this
given X as large as possible okay
because the best way to make this term
small is to make those energies large
because they enter in there as a
negative of negative its financial okay
so this has this kind of pushing down on
the correct answer pushing up on
incorrect answer behavior and we've seen
before we just talked about margin loss
and and other types of losses here is
something that's called a perceptron
loss because it's basically very similar
to I mean it's exactly the same as the
loss that was used for the perceptron 60
years ago over 60 years ago so this one
says I want to make the energy of the
correct answer small and the same time I
want to make the energy of the smallest
the smallest energy for all answers as
large as possible okay so pick the Y
that has the smallest energy in your
system make that as large as you can the
same time picks the correct energy make
that as small as you can now there is a
point at which the
answer with the correct energy is going
to equal to the correct answer and so
that difference can never be negative
okay because the first term is
necessarily one term in that minimum and
so the difference is at best zero and
for every other cases is in spot this
trick is positive it's only zero when
the system gives you the correct answer
okay but this objective function does
not prevent the system from giving the
very same energy to every answer okay so
in that sense it's a bad energy it's a
bad loss function so bad a loss function
because it it says I want the energy of
the correct answer to be small I want
the energy of all the other answers to
be large but I don't insist that there
is any difference between them so the
system can choose to make every answer
the same energy and that's a class okay
so the spectrum loss is not good it's
actually only good for linear systems
but it's not good for as a objective
function for nonlinear systems so here
is a way to design an objective function
that will always be good and you you
take the energy of the correct answer
and you take the energy of the most
offending incorrect answer which means
the value of y that is incorrect but at
the same time is the lowest energy of
all the incorrect answers okay and your
system will work if that difference is
negative in other words if the energy of
the correct answer is smaller than the
energy of the most of any correct answer
but at least some quantity some margin
okay so as long as your objective
function will you design it ensures that
the energy of the correct answer is
smaller than the energy of the most of
any correct answer by at least a margin
nonzero margin then you'll find your
loss function is good okay so things
like kyndra's are good the heat loss
basically says and we talked about this
just just before I want the energy of
the correct answer to be smaller than
the energy of the most offending
incorrect
which is denoted why I bar here but at
least M okay this is what this house
function does it's a hinge loss and it
wants to push down the energy of this
guy below the energy of that guy by at
least this margin so this has a margin M
and this will you know if you train a
system with this loss a well and he can
run the task he will run the task and
probably produce the good answers the
heat loss the soft hinge loss which is
in the context of Nigeria's models is
expressed this way basically instead of
feeling the difference between the
energies of the correct answer and the
most offending incorrect one into a
hinge it sits it feeds it to a soft
hinge okay which we talked about to 30
minutes ago and there this was also very
margin the modulation will be how how to
pick em say that question would be how
to pick em it's arbitrary
you can set n to 1 you can set m to 1/10
I mean it's kind of arbitrary because it
will just determine the size of the
weights of your last layer that's all it
does okay so it's basically up to you
yeah so the soft hinge loss has an
infinite margin it wants the difference
between those two energies to be
infinite but the the Stroop sort of
decreases exponentially so it's it's
never going to get there because you
know the gradients get very small as the
difference increases here's another
example of a margin loss the square loss
the square the square square square loss
okay so this is it also tries to make
the energy of the correct answer squared
as small as possible and then it has a
square hinge to push away to push up the
energy of the most offending incorrect
answers okay and again that works and
this is very similar to the kind of laws
that people use inside these nets and
stuff like that that you've heard about
there's a whole menagerie of such losses
which I'm not going to go through
there's actually a whole table here
which is also in this paper the tutorial
energy these models and what's indicated
on the on the right side is whether they
have a margin or not so the energy loss
does not have a margin it doesn't push
up anything so no margin it doesn't it's
not it doesn't work always you have to
design the machine so that this just may
work for that that system the perceptual
noise does not work in general it only
works it works if you have a linear
parameterization of your energy as a
function of the parameters but that's a
special case and that's the case for the
perceptron and then some of them have a
finite margin like the hinge loss and so
on then I have an infinite margin like
the log the soft hinge if you want much
of how much of those losses some of
those were used were invented in the
context of discriminative learning for
speech recognition systems but not they
were invented before people in machine
learning actually got interested in this
position would be like how you find the
Y bar so if you have like a discreet
code we can find simply like you know
the minimum value but otherwise are we
running gradient descent right so if Y
is continuous then there is no kind of
clear definition for what is the most
offending incorrect answer okay you will
have to define some sort of distance
around the correct answer above which
you consider an answer to be incorrect
okay so for example you are in a
continuous energy landscape is one-one
training sample here you want to make
that the energy of that training sample
small easy enough compute the energy
through your neural net push it down
back propagate update the weight so that
the energy goes down easy enough now the
incorrect answer if you if you take an
answer that just kind of epsilon outside
of that and you push up you know you
your energy surface might be a little
stiff because it's completely computed
by a paralyzed neural net so that may
not be possible so you probably want to
have a incorrect answer that's you know
quite a bit outside that you're gonna
you know push up and so that's how you
define you know the the whole question
is how you define the contrasts each
sample that you gonna push up and and
the at all of those objective functions
here those loss functions use a single
you know Y bar negative sample but there
is no single simple single correct way
of picking this Y bar you can imagine
you know particularly in the kind of in
the sort of continuous case or in the
case where Y is either very very large
or continuous and high dimensional
there's no simple way to pick to pick y
bar you know a lot of discussions we've
had about contrasting methods that I
shan't talk to that first time use nets
and that we talked about before where
basically how do you pick a y bar in the
South supervised case so supervised do
not have an X right and you know this
many ways you can you can pick it up
it's only obvious how to pick it up in
kind of small cases I just want to point
out the formula here at the bottom so
this is a kind of you can think of this
as sort of a general form of of sort of
hinge type contrasted losses where you
have an H function here think of it as a
hinge for some type okay and instead of
that hinge you have the energy of the
correct answer so that's the energy of
WY ixi so this is your training sample
as the energy of the system gives to the
training sample the second term is the
energy of some other answer Y ok for the
same X training sample and then there is
a margin but that margin C is actually a
function of
why I and why and you might imagine the
margin is actually also a function of X
and X I so basically you determine a
margin as a function of the distance
between the between the Y's okay
and you feed that to let's say a hinge
now the thing is this loss function is
summed over all wise here is a discreet
song because Y is discrete but you could
imagine an integral okay so this kind of
loss says you know I have an energy for
my correct answer
I have energies for every other answer
in my space and I want to push out the
energy of all other answers but the
amount by which I want to make them
higher the margin depends on the
distance between between y and y y bar
or in this case between y I which is
this and Y which is the other the other
wise okay so you can imagine that this
margin will come you know we become
smaller and smaller as the 2y is gonna
get closer to each other in this case
you don't push up too much four things
are too close and you you push up in
proportion to the distance of of the Y
you know whatever distance you you think
is appropriate this is of course a more
difficult loss function to to optimize
and out of time so I might talk about
the structure prediction issue that I
said I was going to talk about at a
later time any more question
[Music]
the contrast method you'll what though
as the cell supervised learning papers
the are you usually dump take the random
take it and and images as a negative
examples do you have any idea be used
these functions anyone's tried
experimented with ease either use what
kind of function these loss functions
that you explain to us now
so most most of them use the basically
the negative log likelihood loss here
which in this panel is called NLM mi
okay so NCE that you you heard about
from your shine that's for Jones right
there trying to make the distance
between the samples as small as possible
and then the contrastive term is you
know it's basically your log softmax of
the distances so when you compute the
log softmax you think of distance of a
distance as an energy and then you
compute the log softmax of those
energies you get this formula here in
the second lashline called mi random
what is a negative example so that we
use proximal well so basically you can't
compute this integral over all Y so or
this sum if y is discrete and so you
basically approximate the Sun by you
know a few terms that you pick randomly
right yeah let's go take a look
I mean basically if you want to do this
properly you have to pick those samples
according to the rule of Monte Carlo
sampling but it doesn't matter I mean
that's that's why I hard- mining is hard
okay that's why what makes the
difference between moco world seemed
clear etc is how you pick those negative
samples that's why I said there is no
kind of in cases where the white space
is is high dimensional is there's no you
know predefined way of taking negative
samples
essentially it's only classification
that is easy as other people
other losses yeah I mean there are a lot
of people using the square square or the
the the syringe you know with the
difference of energies so some of the
systems are used by at least at some
point the the system that deep phase
which is the the face recognition system
that used by Facebook to to tag people
it used a convolutional net trained in
supervised mode with a certain number of
categories basically images from I don't
know million people or something but
then there was a fine-tuning phase that
use metric running basically Chinese
nets where you show two photos of the
same person and you say those are the
same person and then two photos of
different people and you push them apart
and that used they tried different
objective functions but I think they
were using the square square laws at
some point maybe the squares financial
and now entirely sure what they're using
now but you know it's one of those what
topics you covered in the next lecture
okay so we're gonna have two guest
lectures so next which is Michael Lewis
Michael Lewis is a research scientist at
Facebook where research in Seattle and
he is a specialist of natural language
processing and translation so it's gonna
you know tell you all the interesting
tidbits about sequence to sequence about
transformers about NLP and about
translation okay and you know he knows a
lot you know much better the details
about this and I do so he's the right
person to talk about this we're gonna
have another guest lecture is going to
be exactly what I saw he he's you know
one of the world specialist of graph
neural nets and so this is the the whole
idea of you know how do you apply your
nets you know you can think of an image
as a function on a regular grid okay
every pixel is a location on a regular
grid you can think of an image as a
function on that grid okay
so a grid is a graph of a particular
type and the image is just a function on
the graph you can think of I don't know
a video as you know a regular 3d grid
where you have space and time and you
know most natural signals you can think
of them as functions on kind of regular
graphs okay what about the case where
the function you're interested in is not
on a is not on the euclidean graph if
you want so let's imagine for example
you take a photo with a panoramic camera
okay 360 camera right so it's a camera
that basically takes a spherical image
okay so now your your pixels live on the
sphere how do you go to the convolution
on us here okay so you want to run your
commercial net on this image that now
lives on the sphere
you can't use the standard ways of
completing correlations so you have to
figure out how to compute coalition's on
the sphere right so that's an example
now here's something a little more
complicated imagine now that you have a
3d scanner and you're capturing I don't
know a dancer you know someone kind of
in front of a 3d scanner and that person
has a particular pose they'd say like
this okay
and and then you take another 3d picture
3d data from another person and that
other person is you know in another post
that person has a different body shape
she's in a different body pose and now
what you want is you want to be able to
map one on to the other you want to be
able to say like you know what is the
hand in the first person what is where
is the hand in the second person so what
you have to do now is basically have a
neural net that takes into account a 3d
mesh that represents the geometry of a
hand and trainee to tell you it's a hand
so that when you apply it to the hand
itself it's a hand when you apply to the
other parts of the body and tells you
it's something else but the data you
have is not an image it's a 3d mesh
okay the match may have different
resolutions the triangles make here
occur at different places so how you
define your coalitions on the domain
like this that is independent of the
resolution of the mesh and only kind of
depends on the shape so that you can
classify your hand regardless of the
orientation the size the conformation
and the body shape of the person you
know things like that right
so here's another example that's perhaps
more interesting you you want to do you
want to train something like like a
Siamese net but you want to train this
aim is not to tell you whether when
molecule is going to stick to another
molecule right so you give two molecules
to your neural net and your neural net
produces two vectors if those two
molecules stick together it gives you
two vectors whose distance is small okay
and if they don't stick together then
the distance is large okay so you can
think of the distance as kind of the
negative free energy of the binding the
binding energy of the two you know the
two the two molecules right or the you
know the the free energy you know minus
a constant each one so so you would
train this as a sign is net but then the
problem is how you represent a molecule
to a network knowing that it's the same
network you're going to apply to this
molecule on that molecule and the two
molecules don't have the same shape they
don't have the same length
they don't have the same number of atoms
they don't have the same like how do you
represent a molecule the best way to
represent a molecule is as a graph it's
basically a graph whose structure
changes with the molecule and this graph
is annotated by the identity of the
atoms at each site maybe by the location
in 3d space for their relative location
maybe by the angle of the bounds between
two successive atoms or the binding
energy of that particular bond or things
like this so so the best way to
represent a molecule is by
by representing as a graph basically and
there's a here's another example perhaps
more relevant to something like Facebook
let's say let's say I want to kind of
infer or let's say Amazon or something I
want to infer what type of let's let's
say an Amazon right and I have a
customer and that customer has bought a
whole bunch of different things and that
customer has commented a whole bunch of
different things I could think of kind
of encoding this as a vector but it
would be a vector of of variable size
because you know people buy different
numbers of things and stuff like that so
I would need to so find a way to
aggregate that data so that everybody
can be represented by the same fixed
size vector but what if instead I
represent the the person and although
all the things that that person has
bought and all the you know reviews that
person etc as a graph essentially and
then I represent what I feed to the
neural net is the graph with values on
the nodes and perhaps the arcs if I have
a way of representing a graph so that
you can connect a neuron that
independently of the shape of the graph
then I can do this kind of application
and so this is what graph neural nets
are about it's a very very hot topic at
the moment it's extremely promising for
a lot of applications particularly in
biomedicine you know in chemistry in
material science but also in social
science for social network analysis and
you know all kinds of all kinds of
applications computer graphics you know
okay good stuff so it's it's really cool
exactly it's really one of the one of
the experts on this topic so I'm really
happy that he accepted to give us a talk
it's not gonna be easy for them for him
because he was in Singapore so he's
gonna be fine the morning for him that's
right well I'm giving a lecture in a
couple days in in Hong Kong so I think
so actually he's from Nanyang
Technological illogical university and
university NTU right until you into you
yeah yeah correct alright so that was it
sorry
there was one more questions yeah
was really interesting professor I had
one no question I was reading this term
called normalizing flows yeah and I
don't understand what they are could you
just give some intuition into why why
people are excited about it
right so nominally flows so it's not a
key to have a lot of experience with but
you know I've read the papers
it's so was proposed by the nino Rezende
and check here at defined a while ago
and a while back maybe five years ago or
so and it's a sort of a density
estimation method so it's a little bit
like like Gans it has a bit of the same
spirit as Gans the and it get it gets
inspiration from ICA independent
component analysis although it's not
kind of explicit in the original paper
but here's the basic idea
this guy is you want to train a neuron
that to transform a known distribution
from which you can sample into a
distribution that happens to be the
distribution of your data okay so let's
imagine that you have a latent variable
z that you sample from a Gaussian
distribution and you run it through a
function or uniform distribution over a
domain okay you ready to a function
implemented by an overnight and you want
to train this new on that so that the
distribution you get at the output is
the one you want that corresponds to
your data okay
and so the let me give you a very simple
example so let's say let's say I have a
variable Z and I've observed variable Y
and I sample my variable Z with the
uniform distribution okay between say
zero and one
okay
and what I want on the output is I don't
know say Gaussian it's kind of stupid to
want to get in but it's say I want to
guess because I could sample from a
Gaussian easily so what I need to do is
kind of transform this uniform
distribution into a Gaussian by a
mapping and the mapping is going to be a
function like it's gonna be if function
okay zero is here kind of like this if
you want okay and and this is the
inverse of the integral of the Gaussian
distribution okay so if I take the
derivative of this function okay so I
don't it let me kind of draw this it's a
little difficult to see but if I map
okay the derivative of this function
here will indicate how much I stretch a
little piece here into a piece here
right so the larger the derivative the
more I stretch right if the slope here
is 1 then this piece of the distribution
here is not going to stretch it's going
to be kind of passed unchanged okay and
the larger the district the the slope
the more I stretch the distribution I
stretch a little piece here and
therefore I kind of distribute all the
samples that fall into this little
location here are stretched time over a
large region right and so what I need to
do is design this function in such a way
that it stretches my input distribution
so that that distribution get
transformed into the output distribution
I want alright so there is a formula
that says so in multi dimension it's a
little more complicated than this but it
says that the the distribution you're
going to get on Y is going to be equal
to the
distribution that you started with in Z
multiplied by the inverse of the
determinant of the Jacobian of this F
function so this is f minus 1 so it's
actually the original formula is this
one but those two things are equal okay
so if you take so this is for a
multi-dimensional vector function right
so it has a Jacobian to map Z 2 y and so
if you take the determinant of the
inverse Jacobian of that function which
is a scalar value indicates by how much
the distribution gets stretched or
compressed in that case at Q so in that
case here is the it's the compression
ratio it's the inverse of the derivative
so it's the compression right and so the
more you compress here the model the
probability will be high more P of Y
will be large the density P of Y for
this Y will be large for a given Q so
this is for y equals f of Z okay
so the big question of homology flow
methods is its how you how you do this
right given a number of samples of P of
Y and given that you sample your
distribution Q when you have your
distribution Q you sample from it you
know how do you kind of minimize an
objective function that knowing that
that you know the P you get that the
output is equal to the Q you put at the
input multiplied by this inverse
determinant of the Jacobian of the F
function what you have to find is the F
function so basically have to
differentiate so basically compute a
distance between those you know
divergence KL divergence for example
between py and the thing on the right
side of the of the equal sign and you
have to differentiate this with respect
to the parameters of F so you have to
basically propagate through the inverse
gradient of the Jacobian of F right it's
not easy
very often what people do is that they
write f as a succession a very simple F
that only modify the the distribution
just a little bit so f very often is you
know something like the identity plus
some deviation the bit like ResNet if
you want and then you stack lots and
lots of layers of that and the problem
becomes simpler because when the when
those those functions do a little bit of
modification then the a lot of those
kind of issues can it becomes become
simple the the determinant here kind of
simplifies okay that's a very sort of AD
try K level description of normalizing
flow there is yeah interesting papers
about this in recent recent years on
even recent months on so using this for
like particle physics and stuff like
that Cramer at NYU is actually a kind of
a specialist of that thank you so much
right any other question
okay that was it great thank you very
much everyone
yeah see you tomorrow guys all right
bye-bye
take care